# http-jsonplaceholder.typicode.com-robotframework
# Overview
REST API Functional tests using [Robot Framework](http://robotframework.org "Robot Framework") for GET Request on /posts endpoint for https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/

# Software Requirements
- Python Version 3.0 and higher

# Test Design
The tests are written following the Black box Testing principles. They cover the /posts URI and GET action on them. 

**Primary Test Design Techniques Used:** Boundary Value Analysis and Equivalence Partitioning

The tests are seperated by below primary tags:
- Smoke
- Extensive

**Smoke:** These are the test cases which uses test data based on Boundary Value Analysis and Equivalence Partitioning for both Valid and Invalid Test Parameters.

**Extensive:** This is just one single test case which iterates over all the existing post ids and validates the response for each and every one of them.

Tests can be controlled during execution using Robot framework tags by executing the below command from RobotAutomation/TestCases/GetPostsTC folder

`robot -i Smoke TS001_Posts.robot`
`robot -i Extensive TS001_Posts.robot`

## Test Data
The tests are structured to get test data in an externalized manner thus making it possible to make changes to test data without touching the source code.

### Folder Structure
**Fixtures/TestData.json**: The test scripts are written with an assumption that the user count and post counts can change for /posts route and hence the values used for boundary testing are present in this json file.
#### Posts
- posts.validInitial: This has the value for the lower boundary value for post id
- posts.validInitCount: This has the value for the post count for above post id
- posts.validFinal: This has the value for the upper boundary value for post id
- posts.validFinalCount: This has the value for the post count for above post id
- posts.InvalidInitial: This has the value for the lower boundary value for post id in Invalid Partition
- posts.InvalidFinal: This has the value for the upper boundary value for post id in Invalid Partition

#### Users
- users.validInitial: This has the value for the lower boundary value for user id
- users.validInitCount: This has the value for the post count for above user id
- users.validFinal: This has the value for the upper boundary value for user id
- users.validFinalCount: This has the value for the post count for above user id
- users.InvalidInitial: This has the value for the lower boundary value for user id in Invalid Partition
- users.InvalidFinal: This has the value for the upper boundary value for user id in Invalid Partition

**Note:** In an ideal testing environment, the above Test data json can be automatically generated by running a query against the database to get expected values. This will help us to compare the JSON response to the persistent data stored in the database.

**Fixtures/environmentSettings.json**: This file is used to provide the environment against which the test will be executed. The valid values are: production, stage, dev. This is provided with an assumption that in a real testing environment, the tests will need to run against different environments.

**Fixtures/globalVariables.json**: This file is used to provide any global Variables needed by the test. Currently it holds the base url for application under test classified based on environment.

**Fixtures/JsonTemplates/**: This folder contains all the Expected JSON Schema which is generated from the json response using an online Json Schema generator tool: [jsonformatter.org](http://jsonformatter.org "jsonformatter.org"). There are three schemas available for Single Post responses, multiple Post responses and Empty Responses from /posts route.

**Resources/PostHelper.robot**: This has all the low-level implementation keywords for the test cases

**UserDefinedKeywords/FixtureLoader.py**: This file contains all the Python level User defined implementation functions.

# How to run tests
## Setup
The package.txt file present at the root contains all the dependencies needed to run the test. Assuming PIP is properly configured, run the below command from where the package.txt file is present
`pip install -r package.txt`

Now the tests can be run using the Robot framework execution commands as shown below from within the RobotAutomation/TestCases/GetPostsTC/ folder:

**To run all the tests**:
`robot TS001_Posts.robot`

**To run only the Smoke cases**
`robot -i Smoke TS001_Posts.robot`

**To run only the Extensive case**
`robot -i Extensive TS001_Posts.robot`

# Reports
The default robot framework test reports after execution can be seen at RobotAutomation/TestCases/GetPostsTC/ folder named as report.html

